docs/common/deprovision.mdx, before:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import InstallAwsCLI from '../aws/partials/common/_install-aws-cli.mdx';
import InstallCivoCLI from '../civo/partials/common/_install-civo-cli.mdx';
import InstallDoCLI from '../do/partials/common/_install-do-cli.mdx';
import InstallGcpCLI from '../gcp/partials/common/_install-gcp-cli.mdx';
import InstallVultrCLI from '../vultr/partials/common/_install-vultr-cli.mdx';
import InstallAkamaiCLI from '../akamai/partials/common/_install-akamai-cli.mdx';
import GetAwsKubeconfig from '../aws/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetCivoKubeconfig from '../civo/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetDoKubeconfig from '../do/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetGcpKubeconfig from '../gcp/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetVultrKubeconfig from '../vultr/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetAkamaiKubeconfig from '../akamai/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';

# Deprovision

To destroy your kubefirst cluster, complete the following steps.

## Prerequisites

### kubefirst CLI

If you are coming from a cloud marketplace, and didn't use the kubefirst CLI, you will need to install it first.

```shell
brew install kubefirst/tools/kubefirst
```

More information in the [installation steps from our documentation](https://docs.kubefirst.io/next/aws/quick-start/install/cli#local-prerequisites).

### Kubernetes CLI

If not already done, you will need `kubectl` to retrieve some information from your cluster.

```shell
brew install kubectl
```

More information in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl).

### Clouds CLIs

If the command-line tool for the chosen cloud provider is not installed, consult the following documentation for installation steps:

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="akamai" label="Akamai">
      <InstallAkamaiCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="aws" label="AWS">
      <InstallAwsCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="civo" label="Civo">
      <InstallCivoCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="do" label="DigitalOcean">
      <InstallDoCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="gcp" label="Google Cloud">
      <InstallGcpCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="vultr" label="Vultr">
      <InstallVultrCLI />
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Terraform CLI

To complete the deprovisioning process, you also need to install the Terraform CLI.

```shell
brew install terraform
```

More information in the [Terraform documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli).

### Obtain the kubeconfig

Before continuing, use the command-line tool for the chosen cloud provider to get the `kubeconfig` for your cluster (replace `<my-cluster>` with your cluster name):

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="akamai" label="Akamai">
      <GetAkamaiKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="aws" label="AWS">
      <GetAwsKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="civo" label="Civo">
      <GetCivoKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="do" label="DigitalOcean">
      <GetDoKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="gcp" label="Google Cloud">
      <GetGcpKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="vultr" label="Vultr">
      <GetVultrKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Steps for Deprovisioning

Once you have the `kubeconfig` file for your cluster, retrieve the Vault token:

```shell
kubectl -n vault get secrets/vault-unseal-secret --template='{{index .data "root-token"}}' | base64 -d
```

This assumes you've exported the environment variable `KUBECONFIG=/path/to/my/kubeconfig` - if not, you can add `--kubeconfig /path/to/my/kubeconfig` just after `kubectl`.

Once you have the Vault root token, run the following `kubefirst` command to retrieve the required environment variables for deprovisioning:

```shell
kubefirst terraform set-env \
  --vault-token <vault-token> \
  --vault-url https://vault.<your-domain> \
  --output-file .env
source .env
```

This will collect the required variables from the necessary secret path and output them to a file referenced by the `--output-file` flag. The second command will set environment variables with its content.

:::warning
If for some reason, Vault wasn't correctly deployed and initiated when you created your cluster, this step won't generate a proper `.env` file. You will still need to continue the deprovision process as it doesn't mean the cluster or other resources weren't created properly. You will either need to set some environment variable manually (see the tip at the [Cloud Provider](#cloud-provider) step to see all values needed) or provide them to Terraform when asked.
:::

Next, you will need to clone the `gitops` repository generated by kubefirst during the initial cluster creation:

```shell
# GitHub
git clone git@github.com:<my-org>/gitops.git

# GitLab
git clone git@gitlab.com:<my-group>/gitops.git
```

### Terraform

:::danger
If you have added custom resources to the `terraform` section of your `gitops` repository, these resources _will_ show up in the plan. Please exercise caution when destroying, and consult the official [documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/destroy) before proceeding.
:::

Switch to the `terraform` directory inside of the cloned `gitops` repository. For example:

```shell
cd gitops/terraform
```

Within the `terraform` directory, there are several subdirectories that contain the infrastructure-as-code declarations for your kubefirst resources.

#### Cloud Provider

To deprovision the cloud provider resources, switch to the cloud provider subdirectory - for example:

```shell
cd <cloud-folder>
```

You can then use standard `terraform` commands:

```shell
terraform init
terraform destroy
```

Once the last command ran successfully, the cluster including all its resources are fully destroyed.

:::tip
If the `init` command is not working, it's probably related to the `.env` file not being sourced or created properly. You can validate it was sourced correctly by running `echo $TF_VAR_kbot_ssh_private_key` which should return a value. If you close your terminal or reload your ZSH or Bash configuration files, the values will be lost: you will need to source the `.env` file again. You can also validate that the file contains all necessary environment variables: `ARGO_SERVER_URL`, `TF_VAR_atlantis_repo_webhook_url`, `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `GITHUB_TOKEN`, `TF_VAR_aws_access_key_id`, `TF_VAR_github_token`, `ATLANTIS_GH_USER`, `TF_VAR_kbot_ssh_public_key`, `VAULT_ADDR`, `ATLANTIS_GH_TOKEN`, `ATLANTIS_GH_WEBHOOK_SECRET`, `TF_VAR_atlantis_repo_webhook_secret`, `TF_VAR_b64_docker_auth`, `TF_VAR_kbot_ssh_private_key`, `TF_VAR_vault_addr`, `GITHUB_OWNER`, `TF_VAR_civo_token`, `TF_VAR_vault_token`, `VAULT_TOKEN`, `ATLANTIS_GH_HOSTNAME`, `TF_VAR_aws_secret_access_key`, `TF_VAR_cloudflare_origin_ca_api_key`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `CIVO_TOKEN`, `TF_VAR_cloudflare_api_key`.
:::

#### Git

To deprovision the git provider resources, switch to the git provider subdirectory - for example:

```shell
# GitHub
cd ../github

# GitLab
cd ../gitlab
```

You can then use standard `terraform` commands:

```shell
terraform init
terraform destroy
```

Once you've destroyed `terraform` resources for the cloud and git providers, the only resource left to clean up is the state storage objects that kubefirst created on your behalf. If you'd like to remove these, this can be achieved by using the cloud console or the command-line utility for your chosen cloud provider.

You can now delete the `gitops` repository you cloned on your computer, and the `.env` file:

```shell
cd ../../..
rm -rf gitops
rm .env
```

### Console UI

No matter is you created your new cluster, using the CLI directly (`kubefirst <cloud> create`) or by using the console UI (`kubefirst launch up`), kubefirst will have created a k3d cluster in Docker. We call it the cluster 0, which is either used to display the Console UI, or to connect to our API and create your new kubefirst cluster directly from the CLI. Since it's not needed anymore, you need to destroy it by running:

```shell
kubefirst launch down
```

This command will also reset any configurations files locally you can create new clusters.

:::tip
You don't have to wait till the deprovisioning to run this command: as soon as your cluster on the public cloud of your choice is created, you can get rid of cluster 0.
:::

Commit message:

docs: add information about long deprovision for clouds like Google (#722)

docs/common/deprovision.mdx, after:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import InstallAwsCLI from '../aws/partials/common/_install-aws-cli.mdx';
import InstallCivoCLI from '../civo/partials/common/_install-civo-cli.mdx';
import InstallDoCLI from '../do/partials/common/_install-do-cli.mdx';
import InstallGcpCLI from '../gcp/partials/common/_install-gcp-cli.mdx';
import InstallVultrCLI from '../vultr/partials/common/_install-vultr-cli.mdx';
import InstallAkamaiCLI from '../akamai/partials/common/_install-akamai-cli.mdx';
import GetAwsKubeconfig from '../aws/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetCivoKubeconfig from '../civo/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetDoKubeconfig from '../do/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetGcpKubeconfig from '../gcp/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetVultrKubeconfig from '../vultr/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';
import GetAkamaiKubeconfig from '../akamai/partials/common/_get-kubeconfig.mdx';

# Deprovision

To destroy your kubefirst cluster, complete the following steps.

## Prerequisites

### kubefirst CLI

If you are coming from a cloud marketplace, and didn't use the kubefirst CLI, you will need to install it first.

```shell
brew install kubefirst/tools/kubefirst
```

More information in the [installation steps from our documentation](https://docs.kubefirst.io/next/aws/quick-start/install/cli#local-prerequisites).

### Kubernetes CLI

If not already done, you will need `kubectl` to retrieve some information from your cluster.

```shell
brew install kubectl
```

More information in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl).

### Clouds CLIs

If the command-line tool for the chosen cloud provider is not installed, consult the following documentation for installation steps:

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="akamai" label="Akamai">
      <InstallAkamaiCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="aws" label="AWS">
      <InstallAwsCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="civo" label="Civo">
      <InstallCivoCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="do" label="DigitalOcean">
      <InstallDoCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="gcp" label="Google Cloud">
      <InstallGcpCLI />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="vultr" label="Vultr">
      <InstallVultrCLI />
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Terraform CLI

To complete the deprovisioning process, you also need to install the Terraform CLI.

```shell
brew install terraform
```

More information in the [Terraform documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli).

### Obtain the kubeconfig

Before continuing, use the command-line tool for the chosen cloud provider to get the `kubeconfig` for your cluster (replace `<my-cluster>` with your cluster name):

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="akamai" label="Akamai">
      <GetAkamaiKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="aws" label="AWS">
      <GetAwsKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="civo" label="Civo">
      <GetCivoKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="do" label="DigitalOcean">
      <GetDoKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="gcp" label="Google Cloud">
      <GetGcpKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="vultr" label="Vultr">
      <GetVultrKubeconfig />
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Steps for Deprovisioning

Once you have the `kubeconfig` file for your cluster, retrieve the Vault token:

```shell
kubectl -n vault get secrets/vault-unseal-secret --template='{{index .data "root-token"}}' | base64 -d
```

This assumes you've exported the environment variable `KUBECONFIG=/path/to/my/kubeconfig` - if not, you can add `--kubeconfig /path/to/my/kubeconfig` just after `kubectl`.

Once you have the Vault root token, run the following `kubefirst` command to retrieve the required environment variables for deprovisioning:

```shell
kubefirst terraform set-env \
  --vault-token <vault-token> \
  --vault-url https://vault.<your-domain> \
  --output-file .env
source .env
```

This will collect the required variables from the necessary secret path and output them to a file referenced by the `--output-file` flag. The second command will set environment variables with its content.

:::warning
If for some reason, Vault wasn't correctly deployed and initiated when you created your cluster, this step won't generate a proper `.env` file. You will still need to continue the deprovision process as it doesn't mean the cluster or other resources weren't created properly. You will either need to set some environment variable manually (see the tip at the [Cloud Provider](#cloud-provider) step to see all values needed) or provide them to Terraform when asked.
:::

Next, you will need to clone the `gitops` repository generated by kubefirst during the initial cluster creation:

```shell
# GitHub
git clone git@github.com:<my-org>/gitops.git

# GitLab
git clone git@gitlab.com:<my-group>/gitops.git
```

### Terraform

:::danger
If you have added custom resources to the `terraform` section of your `gitops` repository, these resources _will_ show up in the plan. Please exercise caution when destroying, and consult the official [documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/destroy) before proceeding.
:::

Switch to the `terraform` directory inside of the cloned `gitops` repository. For example:

```shell
cd gitops/terraform
```

Within the `terraform` directory, there are several subdirectories that contain the infrastructure-as-code declarations for your kubefirst resources.

#### Cloud Provider

To deprovision the cloud provider resources, switch to the cloud provider subdirectory - for example:

```shell
cd <cloud-folder>
```

You can then use standard `terraform` commands:

```shell
terraform init
terraform destroy
```

Once the last command ran successfully (it can take a lot of time with some of them when many resources had to be created, ex.: Google Cloud), the cluster including all its resources are fully destroyed.

:::tip
If the `init` command is not working, it's probably related to the `.env` file not being sourced or created properly. You can validate it was sourced correctly by running `echo $TF_VAR_kbot_ssh_private_key` which should return a value. If you close your terminal or reload your ZSH or Bash configuration files, the values will be lost: you will need to source the `.env` file again. You can also validate that the file contains all necessary environment variables: `ARGO_SERVER_URL`, `TF_VAR_atlantis_repo_webhook_url`, `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `GITHUB_TOKEN`, `TF_VAR_aws_access_key_id`, `TF_VAR_github_token`, `ATLANTIS_GH_USER`, `TF_VAR_kbot_ssh_public_key`, `VAULT_ADDR`, `ATLANTIS_GH_TOKEN`, `ATLANTIS_GH_WEBHOOK_SECRET`, `TF_VAR_atlantis_repo_webhook_secret`, `TF_VAR_b64_docker_auth`, `TF_VAR_kbot_ssh_private_key`, `TF_VAR_vault_addr`, `GITHUB_OWNER`, `TF_VAR_civo_token`, `TF_VAR_vault_token`, `VAULT_TOKEN`, `ATLANTIS_GH_HOSTNAME`, `TF_VAR_aws_secret_access_key`, `TF_VAR_cloudflare_origin_ca_api_key`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `CIVO_TOKEN`, `TF_VAR_cloudflare_api_key`.
:::

#### Git

To deprovision the git provider resources, switch to the git provider subdirectory - for example:

```shell
# GitHub
cd ../github

# GitLab
cd ../gitlab
```

You can then use standard `terraform` commands:

```shell
terraform init
terraform destroy
```

Once you've destroyed `terraform` resources for the cloud and git providers, the only resource left to clean up is the state storage objects that kubefirst created on your behalf. If you'd like to remove these, this can be achieved by using the cloud console or the command-line utility for your chosen cloud provider.

You can now delete the `gitops` repository you cloned on your computer, and the `.env` file:

```shell
cd ../../..
rm -rf gitops
rm .env
```

### Console UI

No matter is you created your new cluster, using the CLI directly (`kubefirst <cloud> create`) or by using the console UI (`kubefirst launch up`), kubefirst will have created a k3d cluster in Docker. We call it the cluster 0, which is either used to display the Console UI, or to connect to our API and create your new kubefirst cluster directly from the CLI. Since it's not needed anymore, you need to destroy it by running:

```shell
kubefirst launch down
```

This command will also reset any configurations files locally you can create new clusters.

:::tip
You don't have to wait till the deprovisioning to run this command: as soon as your cluster on the public cloud of your choice is created, you can get rid of cluster 0.
:::
