docs/vultr/overview.mdx, before:

---
hide_title: true
sidebar_label: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
# custom_edit_url: https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/edit/main/docs/api-doc-markdown.md
description: an overview of kubefirst on a vultr kubernetes cluster
image: 'https://docs.kubefirst.io/img/logo.svg'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import styles from '@site/docs/stylesheets/tabs.module.css';
import ReactDom from 'react-dom';
import * as config from '@site/docs/constants.js';

import GitHubOverview from '@site/docs/vultr/partials/github/_overview.mdx';
import GitLabOverview from '@site/docs/vultr/partials/gitlab/_overview.mdx';
import CloudBanner from '@site/src/components/CloudBanner/CloudBanner.jsx';

<div
  style={{
    display: 'flex',
    justifyContent: 'flex-end',
    alignItems: 'center',
  }}
>
  <div>
    <img src={config.VULTR_LOGO_URL} height="50" width="120" />
  </div>
</div>

# Overview

The Vultr provisioning process will:

- Create a `gitops` git repository from our [gitops-template](https://github.com/kubefirst/gitops-template) and store it in your selected git provider.
- Create a Kubernetes cluster in the Vultr cloud.
- Install Argo CD bootstrapped against your `gitops` repository so your repository powers the platform.
- Install all the platform apps using GitOps (gitops repository `/registry` folder).
- Apply Terraform to configure Vault (gitops repository `/terraform/vault` folder).
- Bind a webhook to ngrok in cluster so you can automate Terraform executions through Atlantis.
- Integrate Argo Workflows with your git provider.
- Install Argo Workflows [cluster workflow templates](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/cluster-workflow-templates/#cluster-workflow-templates) to build containers, publish charts, and provide GitOps delivery pipelines.
- Install a sample application git repository that uses this automation to demonstrate app delivery ([metaphor](https://github.com/kubefirst/metaphor-template)).

![kubefirst Vultr with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/vultr/gitlab/installation-diagram-light.png#light-mode)![kubefirst Vultr with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/vultr/gitlab/installation-diagram-dark.png#dark-mode)

# Applications

<Tabs groupId="git_provider" defaultValue="github" queryString>
  <TabItem
    attributes={{ className: styles.github }}
    value="github"
    label={
      <div className="git-tab">
        <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/github.svg" />
        <span>GitHub</span>
      </div>
    }
  >
    <GitHubOverview />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem
    value="gitlab"
    attributes={{ className: styles.gitlab }}
    label={
      <div className="git-tab">
        <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/gitlab.svg" />
        <span>GitLab</span>
      </div>
    }
  >
    <GitLabOverview />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

add a warning about the fact that Vultr is in beta

docs/vultr/overview.mdx, after:

---
hide_title: true
sidebar_label: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
# custom_edit_url: https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus/edit/main/docs/api-doc-markdown.md
description: an overview of kubefirst on a vultr kubernetes cluster
image: 'https://docs.kubefirst.io/img/logo.svg'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import styles from '@site/docs/stylesheets/tabs.module.css';
import ReactDom from 'react-dom';
import * as config from '@site/docs/constants.js';

import GitHubOverview from '@site/docs/vultr/partials/github/_overview.mdx';
import GitLabOverview from '@site/docs/vultr/partials/gitlab/_overview.mdx';
import CloudBanner from '@site/src/components/CloudBanner/CloudBanner.jsx';

<div
  style={{
    display: 'flex',
    justifyContent: 'flex-end',
    alignItems: 'center',
  }}
>
  <div>
    <img src={config.VULTR_LOGO_URL} height="50" width="120" />
  </div>
</div>

# Overview

:::caution

Vultr is in beta. It is quite stable, but use at your own risks.

:::

The Vultr provisioning process will:

- Create a `gitops` git repository from our [gitops-template](https://github.com/kubefirst/gitops-template) and store it in your selected git provider.
- Create a Kubernetes cluster in the Vultr cloud.
- Install Argo CD bootstrapped against your `gitops` repository so your repository powers the platform.
- Install all the platform apps using GitOps (gitops repository `/registry` folder).
- Apply Terraform to configure Vault (gitops repository `/terraform/vault` folder).
- Bind a webhook to ngrok in cluster so you can automate Terraform executions through Atlantis.
- Integrate Argo Workflows with your git provider.
- Install Argo Workflows [cluster workflow templates](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-workflows/cluster-workflow-templates/#cluster-workflow-templates) to build containers, publish charts, and provide GitOps delivery pipelines.
- Install a sample application git repository that uses this automation to demonstrate app delivery ([metaphor](https://github.com/kubefirst/metaphor-template)).

![kubefirst Vultr with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/vultr/gitlab/installation-diagram-light.png#light-mode)![kubefirst Vultr with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/vultr/gitlab/installation-diagram-dark.png#dark-mode)

# Applications

<Tabs groupId="git_provider" defaultValue="github" queryString>
  <TabItem
    attributes={{ className: styles.github }}
    value="github"
    label={
      <div className="git-tab">
        <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/github.svg" />
        <span>GitHub</span>
      </div>
    }
  >
    <GitHubOverview />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem
    value="gitlab"
    attributes={{ className: styles.gitlab }}
    label={
      <div className="git-tab">
        <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/gitlab.svg" />
        <span>GitLab</span>
      </div>
    }
  >
    <GitLabOverview />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
