docs/akamai/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
description: an overview of kubefirst on a Akamai kubernetes cluster
image: "https://docs.kubefirst.io/img/logo.svg"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import styles from "../stylesheets/tabs.module.css";
import ReactDom from 'react-dom'
import * as config from "../constants.js"
import GitHubOverview from '../akamai/partials/github/_overview.mdx'
import GitLabOverview from '../akamai/partials/gitlab/_overview.mdx'
import CloudBanner from '@site/src/components/CloudBanner/CloudBanner.jsx'
import CommonProvisionProcess from "../common/partials/common/_provision-process.mdx";
import KnownLimitations from "../common/known-limitations.mdx"

<div
  style={{
    display: "flex",
    justifyContent: "flex-end",
    alignItems: "center",
  }}
>
  <div>
    <img src={config.AKAMAI_LOGO_URL} height="50" width="150" alt="Akamai logo" />
  </div>
</div>

# Overview

:::caution

Akamai is in beta. Use at your own risks.

:::

:::note
[Linode has been acquired by Akamai in 2022](https://www.akamai.com/newsroom/press-release/akamai-completes-acquisition-of-linode), but the branding is still in some cases, like for the CLI used to connect to Kubernetes on Akamai. If you see Linode written in the documention, keep in mind that it is in reality Akamai, but that we have to use the previous brand because Akamai still do.
:::

The Akamai provisioning process will:
<CommonProvisionProcess firstitem="Create a Kubernetes management cluster in the Akamai cloud."/>

![kubefirst Akamai with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/akamai/gitlab/installation-diagram-light.png#light-mode)![kubefirst Akamai with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/akamai/gitlab/installation-diagram-dark.png#dark-mode)

# Applications

<Tabs groupId="git_provider" defaultValue="github" queryString>
    <TabItem
      attributes={{className: styles.github}}
      value="github"
      label={
        <div className="git-tab">
          <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/github.svg" alt="GitHub logo" />
          <span>GitHub</span>
        </div>
      }
    >
      <GitHubOverview />
    </TabItem>
    <!-- markdownlint-disable MD049 -->
    {/*<TabItem
      value="gitlab"
      attributes={{className: styles.gitlab}}
      label={
        <div className="git-tab">
          <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/gitlab.svg" alt="GitLab logo" />
          <span>GitLab</span>
        </div>
      }
    >
      <GitLabOverview />
    </TabItem>*/}
</Tabs>

## Known Limitations

<KnownLimitations />

### Akamai Specific

- Akamai is [only available on GitHub](https://github.com/kubefirst/kubefirst/issues/2143) for now.
- You [cannot use Akamai as the DNS provider](https://github.com/kubefirst/kubefirst/issues/2144) for now: they have a requirement with domain that needs to be attached to a VM that we need to sort out. For now, you can use Cloudflare as the DNS provider without any issues.

Commit message:

docs: add a warning about wrong diagrams + images for Akamai docs (#662)

docs/akamai/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
description: an overview of kubefirst on a Akamai kubernetes cluster
image: "https://docs.kubefirst.io/img/logo.svg"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import styles from "../stylesheets/tabs.module.css";
import ReactDom from 'react-dom'
import * as config from "../constants.js"
import GitHubOverview from '../akamai/partials/github/_overview.mdx'
import GitLabOverview from '../akamai/partials/gitlab/_overview.mdx'
import CloudBanner from '@site/src/components/CloudBanner/CloudBanner.jsx'
import CommonProvisionProcess from "../common/partials/common/_provision-process.mdx";
import KnownLimitations from "../common/known-limitations.mdx"

<div
  style={{
    display: "flex",
    justifyContent: "flex-end",
    alignItems: "center",
  }}
>
  <div>
    <img src={config.AKAMAI_LOGO_URL} height="50" width="150" alt="Akamai logo" />
  </div>
</div>

# Overview

:::caution

Akamai is in beta. Use at your own risks. The Akamai documentation is missing proper diagrams & some images, and will display Civo ones, in the meantime: it will be fixed soon.

:::

:::note
[Linode has been acquired by Akamai in 2022](https://www.akamai.com/newsroom/press-release/akamai-completes-acquisition-of-linode), but the branding is still in some cases, like for the CLI used to connect to Kubernetes on Akamai. If you see Linode written in the documention, keep in mind that it is in reality Akamai, but that we have to use the previous brand because Akamai still do.
:::

The Akamai provisioning process will:
<CommonProvisionProcess firstitem="Create a Kubernetes management cluster in the Akamai cloud."/>

![kubefirst Akamai with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/akamai/gitlab/installation-diagram-light.png#light-mode)![kubefirst Akamai with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/akamai/gitlab/installation-diagram-dark.png#dark-mode)

# Applications

<Tabs groupId="git_provider" defaultValue="github" queryString>
    <TabItem
      attributes={{className: styles.github}}
      value="github"
      label={
        <div className="git-tab">
          <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/github.svg" alt="GitHub logo" />
          <span>GitHub</span>
        </div>
      }
    >
      <GitHubOverview />
    </TabItem>
    <!-- markdownlint-disable MD049 -->
    {/*<TabItem
      value="gitlab"
      attributes={{className: styles.gitlab}}
      label={
        <div className="git-tab">
          <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/gitlab.svg" alt="GitLab logo" />
          <span>GitLab</span>
        </div>
      }
    >
      <GitLabOverview />
    </TabItem>*/}
</Tabs>

## Known Limitations

<KnownLimitations />

### Akamai Specific

- Akamai is [only available on GitHub](https://github.com/kubefirst/kubefirst/issues/2143) for now.
- You [cannot use Akamai as the DNS provider](https://github.com/kubefirst/kubefirst/issues/2144) for now: they have a requirement with domain that needs to be attached to a VM that we need to sort out. For now, you can use Cloudflare as the DNS provider without any issues.
