docs/k3s/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
description: an overview of kubefirst on a K3s kubernetes cluster
image: "https://docs.kubefirst.io/img/logo.svg"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import styles from "../stylesheets/tabs.module.css";
import ReactDom from 'react-dom'
import * as config from "../constants.js"
import GitHubOverview from '../k3s/partials/github/_overview.mdx'
import GitLabOverview from '../k3s/partials/gitlab/_overview.mdx'
import CloudBanner from '@site/src/components/CloudBanner/CloudBanner.jsx'
import CommonProvisionProcess from "../common/partials/common/_provision-process.mdx";
import KnownLimitations from "../common/known-limitations.mdx"

<div
  style={{
    display: "flex",
    justifyContent: "flex-end",
    alignItems: "center",
  }}
>
  <div>
    <img src={config.K3S_LOGO_URL} height="50" width="150" alt="K3s logo" />
  </div>
</div>

# Overview

:::caution

K3s is in beta. Use at your own risks.  The K3s documentation is missing proper diagrams & some images, and will display Civo ones, in the meantime: it will be fixed soon.

:::

The K3s provisioning process will:
<CommonProvisionProcess firstitem="Create a Kubernetes management cluster with K3s."/>

![kubefirst K3s with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/k3s/gitlab/installation-diagram-light.png#light-mode)![kubefirst K3s with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/k3s/gitlab/installation-diagram-dark.png#dark-mode)

# Applications

<Tabs groupId="git_provider" defaultValue="gitlab" queryString>
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD049 -->
{/*<Tabs groupId="git_provider" defaultValue="github" queryString>

     <TabItem
      attributes={{className: styles.github}}
      value="github"
      label={
        <div className="git-tab">
          <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/github.svg" alt="GitHub logo" />
          <span>GitHub</span>
        </div>
      }
    >
      <GitHubOverview />
    </TabItem> */}

    <TabItem
      value="gitlab"
      attributes={{className: styles.gitlab}}
      label={
        <div className="git-tab">
          <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/gitlab.svg" alt="GitLab logo" />
          <span>GitLab</span>
        </div>
      }
    >
      <GitLabOverview />
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Known Limitations

<KnownLimitations />

### K3s Specific

- K3s [cannot be installed using the UI console](https://github.com/kubefirst/kubefirst/issues/2147): you can only use the CLI for now.
- K3s is [only available on GitLab](https://github.com/kubefirst/kubefirst/issues/2146) for now.

Commit message:

docs: add information about only Cloudflare supported on K3s

docs/k3s/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
description: an overview of kubefirst on a K3s kubernetes cluster
image: "https://docs.kubefirst.io/img/logo.svg"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import styles from "../stylesheets/tabs.module.css";
import ReactDom from 'react-dom'
import * as config from "../constants.js"
import GitHubOverview from '../k3s/partials/github/_overview.mdx'
import GitLabOverview from '../k3s/partials/gitlab/_overview.mdx'
import CloudBanner from '@site/src/components/CloudBanner/CloudBanner.jsx'
import CommonProvisionProcess from "../common/partials/common/_provision-process.mdx";
import KnownLimitations from "../common/known-limitations.mdx"

<div
  style={{
    display: "flex",
    justifyContent: "flex-end",
    alignItems: "center",
  }}
>
  <div>
    <img src={config.K3S_LOGO_URL} height="50" width="150" alt="K3s logo" />
  </div>
</div>

# Overview

:::caution

K3s is in beta. Use at your own risks.  The K3s documentation is missing proper diagrams & some images, and will display Civo ones, in the meantime: it will be fixed soon.

:::

The K3s provisioning process will:
<CommonProvisionProcess firstitem="Create a Kubernetes management cluster with K3s."/>

![kubefirst K3s with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/k3s/gitlab/installation-diagram-light.png#light-mode)![kubefirst K3s with GitLab Cluster Diagram](../img/k3s/gitlab/installation-diagram-dark.png#dark-mode)

# Applications

<Tabs groupId="git_provider" defaultValue="gitlab" queryString>
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD049 -->
{/*<Tabs groupId="git_provider" defaultValue="github" queryString>

     <TabItem
      attributes={{className: styles.github}}
      value="github"
      label={
        <div className="git-tab">
          <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/github.svg" alt="GitHub logo" />
          <span>GitHub</span>
        </div>
      }
    >
      <GitHubOverview />
    </TabItem> */}

    <TabItem
      value="gitlab"
      attributes={{className: styles.gitlab}}
      label={
        <div className="git-tab">
          <img src="https://assets.kubefirst.com/console/gitlab.svg" alt="GitLab logo" />
          <span>GitLab</span>
        </div>
      }
    >
      <GitLabOverview />
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Known Limitations

<KnownLimitations />

### K3s Specific

- Cloudflare is the only DNS provider implemented so far.
- K3s [cannot be installed using the UI console](https://github.com/kubefirst/kubefirst/issues/2147): you can only use the CLI for now.
- K3s is [only available on GitLab](https://github.com/kubefirst/kubefirst/issues/2146) for now.
